---
title: "Castleview by Gene Wolfe"
postDate: "2019-08-03"
---

Warning: spoilers galore. If you haven't read the book yet, just leave off here and read it first.

<!--more-->

I don't have any solid thoughts yet, as I only finished a few minutes ago and I'm mulling it over. But a few associations are obvious:

The dark rider is Odin. There's a reference to Sleipnir (Odin's 8 legged horse), and he has only one eye. That suggests Mr. Fee is his servant, since "Fee" is the Anglicized version of the Irish surname O Fiaich ("Raven"). He's seemingly trying to take the Howard's house as a place to reëstablish a pagan religion.

Wrangler's real name, the second-to-last paragraph reveals, is "Arthur." Is he _the_ Arthur? Or is Wolfe messing with us?

Sancha and von Madadh ("madadh" is Irish for "dog") are two examples of changelings, as von Madadh explains in ch. 30. Surely there are others, introduced before that point, that Wolfe intends for his readers to recognize in retrospect. That's one of his classic tricks.

Valse Triste: a work by the Finnish composer Jean Sibelius. Wikipedia describes the setting:

> It is night. The son, who has been watching beside the bedside of his sick mother, has fallen asleep from sheer weariness, Gradually a ruddy light is diffused through the room: there is a sound of distant music: the glow and the music steal nearer until the strains of a valse melody float distantly to our ears. The sleeping mother awakens, rises from her bed and, in her long white garment, which takes the semblance of a ball dress, begins to move silently and slowly to and fro. She waves her hands and beckons in time to the music, as though she were summoning a crowd of invisible guests. And now they appear, these strange visionary couples, turning and gliding to an unearthly valse rhythm. The dying woman mingles with the dancers; she strives to make them look into her eyes, but the shadowy guests one and all avoid her glance. Then she seems to sink exhausted on her bed and the music breaks off. Presently she gathers all her strength and invokes the dance once more, with more energetic gestures than before. Back come the shadowy dancers, gyrating in a wild, mad rhythm. The weird gaiety reaches a climax; there is a knock at the door, which flies wide open; the mother utters a despairing cry; the spectral guests vanish; the music dies away. Death stands on the threshold.

This is a decent description of the strange comings and goings at the Howard house the night of Tom's death. What is Wolfe telling us? Is Sally herself dying? It seems not, she's seen at the end happily spending time with von Madadh. Or is she dead and now with her dead dog? (But not her husband? I think she's alive.)

Fouque's funeral home: Fouque wrote the fairy tale _The Undine_ about a water spirit who marries a knight in order to gain an immortal soul. Viviane Morgan is seemingly Morgan LeFay, and maybe also the Lady of the Lake? Or is there another lady I've missed?

The Daoine Institute surely takes its name from _daoine maithe_: "the good people". The faeries of Irish lore.

King Geimhreadh: Irish for "winter"

Open questions:

- Who was the gunman? Presumably Tom and Sancha were both shot by the same sniper

Who is the Winter King? I originally assumed he was King Arthur, senile because he was trapped in suspended animation, as the legend suggests. But the Epilogue suggests Shields is the Arthur figure, and Wrangler himself is named Arthur.

How many car accidents were there really? I got the impression that when the characters were coming out of Faerie toward the end, the crash caused by the dark rider might have been the same as the one the Shieldses are in bear the beginning.

More generally: huh?
