---
title: "The Tragedy of the Common: Recipes and Christmas Songs"
postDate: "2018-12-11"
tags: 
  - "chesterton"
---

> It is possible that God says every morning, "Do it again" to the sun; and every evening, "Do it again" to the moon. It may not be automatic necessity that makes all daisies alike; it may be that God makes every daisy separately, but has never got tired of making them. It may be that He has the eternal appetite of infancy; for we have sinned and grown old, and our Father is younger than we.
> 
> — GK Chesterton, _Orthodoxy_

Anyone who opens a recipe website and searches for a common recipe, say a lasagna, would be forgiven for doubting any such thing as a "common lasagna" exists. He will find a vegetarian lasagna, a gluten free lasagna, a Thai-inspired curry lasagna, but precious little of the ricotta-and-sausage creation that his (probably fictitious) Old World _nonna_ would recognize.

Likewise with Christmas songs: I challenge you to find a "standard" rendition of The Little Drummer Boy. You will find punk covers, bombastic prog rock, _a capella_ medleys, Mariah Carey knockoffs looking to set world records for vibrato. But hardly anyone since the Bing Crosby era has deigned to record themselves singing the melody as originally composed.

I have not seen an exploration of this observation anywhere else and thus have named it myself: _The Tragedy of the Common_ (You have, by this act of humility, been saved from the need to contemplate Auberon's First Law).

The Tragedy of the Common is that, in many cases, where the "Platonic ideal" of a thing is widely-known, it paradoxically becomes hard to find. There is little personal glory to be had in faithfully reproducing what everyone already expects.

We also see this in liturgy and religious architecture. A friend of mine serves on his parish's planning committee for the building of a new church. While he's fortunate, in this case, that the pastor and the strongest contingent of the group are traditionally-minded, there are members who want to be more "creative" in the design and put the parish's supposed personal spin on the building.

Why do we we constantly feel the draw of different, the new, the trendy? As Chesterton suggests, this happens when we have lose our childlike wonder and can no longer appreciate good things repeated over. We need constant stimulus for our over-exerted souls to feel anything at all.

Here is where the wisdom of the monks becomes apparent. They knew that we could only find God by slowly, gradually purifying ourselves of attachment to sensations and desires. By breaking our addiction to the things of the world and forming ourselves around a routine of prayer and the practice of virtue. How are we, as lay people, to form a monastic aspect to our own lives? How do we discipline our desires to want only the simplest thing imaginable, the presence of nothing but God Himself?

* * *

_I'm starting to read The Rule of St. Benedict, so I may have more to say on this subject in the near future._
